---
title: "En"
bg: white
color: black
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

# words and phrases
#### Some English expressions in Logic and Math, from papers, textbooks, monographs or articles I’ve read.
---






- hybridise --> hybridization
- 
- aforementioned
	- as aforementioned.
	- undermentioned

- desiderata: n. 〈拉〉迫切需要得到之物 （desideratum 的复数）

- ..., etc. / ..., and so forth.

- notwithstanding
  
- in light of 根据；鉴于；从…观点
- to shed light on  阐明；使…清楚地显出

- (S)he will ......

- very *involved* definitions and notations.
- 
- Pictorially, ....
- 
- 

- axiom
  - axiomatisable —> finitely axiomatisable
  - axiomatic `agj.`
  - axiomatize/ axiomatise `v.`
  - axiomatised 
  - axiomatization 
  - finite axiomatisability

- 

- denoted as <><>. -- (<><>, in symbols)

- 
- is not a whim 并非心血来潮
- 

- as usual. / in the usual way.  / in the expected way.

- 
- <><><> when unambiguous.

- 
- deal/cope with ...
- 
- auxiliary 
- 
- antecedent ==>  succedent
- 
- Boldly speaking, ...
- 
- alethic  --> alethic logic
- 

- save  (`prep.`)
  - *save* Hilbert-style calculi from the first part,
  all deductive systems discussed in the book are tableau-based.
- 




- rudiments
    - He has just learned the rudiments of Chinese.
    - Rudiments of Latin


- 

- dilemma
    - prisoner's dilemma
    - moral dilemma

- 

- 



## sentences



- The most common way of understanding the notion of decidability of a certain logic is *boiling it down to* the decidability of the satisfiability problem for this logic.
- 
- What follows is a short textbook-style presentation of xxx, .....
- 
- there is ***a spectrum of*** different semantics for first-order modal logics.
- although mostly self-contained.
- 
- We envisage several interesting directions for future work.
-
- Throughout the paper, unless stated otherwise, we assume that .....
- 
- With a little abuse of notation, in the following we also use <><><> to denote <><><>.
- 
- We would like to thank <><><> for a number of stimulating discussions, and his comments on an earlier draft of the paper. We would also like to thank the referee for a number of suggestions which greatly improved the presentation.

---

## Formal languages:

1. unimodal language
2. bimodal language
3. 

- The formulas of $\mathcal{ML}$ are inductively generated from atomic formulas of the form $*p_i$* through closure under Boolean connectives ($\neg,\to,\land,\lor$) and modal operators.
  
- The language of $n$-modal logic contains $n$ modality symbols $\Diamond_1,\dots,\Diamond_n$, in addition to the usual language of propositional calculus.

- If $\phi$ is a Boolean compound, the definition of truth goes as usual.
  
- The truth of a modal formula at a point of a model is determined in the usual manner, 
in particular, …(后面解释下比较特殊的模态词的真值条件就可以了) 

- ... are said to be (modal) equivalent if their ... coincide.
- 
- The other standard logic connectives .... can be derived as usual.
- 
- the **Boolean cases** are treated as usual.

- We define the other Boolean connectives V, ->, <->,\top and \bot in the usual way.




## In proof:

- Induction proof:
    - **Base case**: The base case is immediate by definition.
    - Induction hypothesis / Inductive hypothesis (**IH**).
    - The **boolean cases** are straightforward.
    - Induction step
- 
- 

- RAA
  - And suppose for the sake of contradiction that ....
  - We wat derive a contradiction ...==>... We have our desired contradiction. 
  - Suppose not, we derive a contradiction.

- 

- desired 
- An analogous argument shows that ...
- 
- It suffices to show that ...
- It is sufficient to show that ....
- 
- 
- It is clear (from the Def.) that ...
- We leave the proof to the reader.
- It is readily checked that .... 

- 
- 
- In the contrapositive direction: ....
- If ...., so do both P_1 and P_2.














---
## Latin/Abbr.

1. per se
  - The f.m.p does not give decidability per se.
    
2.see =/= cf.   
Use `see` to identify the source of some information, evidence, argument, etc., not “cf.” 
There is a distinction between `see` and `cf.`; use `cf.` only to mean “compare” or “see, by way of comparison.” 
Neither term is italicized in notes.

  


---
## 固搭 / collocations & idioms

- `proposition letters` or `propositional variables/symbols` 而不用 <del>proposition variables</del> 或者 <del>propositional letters</del>.

- not to mention / let alone
  - not to mention the empty subgraph...

|

- decimal representation
- binary representation
- unary notation
- dyadic predicate/relation symbols
- monadic predicate letter

|

- 总的来说、大体上
  - `By and large`, these people are peace-loving, law-abiding citizens.
  - `By and large` this is straightforward, ...
 
- the problem has been refined.
- we can restrict the set of worlds more `drastically`.
- prerequisite

- We assume that the reader has at least a basic acquaintance with complexity class <><><>.

- if no confusion arises.

- semi-formal definition

- one of the attractive features of `tiling problems` is that they are very easy to `visualize`.

- annotated bibliography



### relations
- reflexivity
- symmetry
- transitivity
- irreflexivity

- equivalence relation --> equivalence class
- monadic relations

### functions
- injective ~~> injection
- surjective ~~> surjection
- bijective ~~ bijection

#### be mnemonic for 
- the letter 'M' is mnemonic for 'maps'.
- 'H' and 'V' are mnemonic for the horizontal and vertical relation, respectively.
- the symbol $D$ is a mnemonic for the diagonal relation.
